Blast Your Way Through the Asteroid Avalanche!

Asteroids plunge at you! Trapped in a gigantic cloud of asteroids, your
struggling spaceship hurls towards its doom. You'll have to pulverize all
the asteroids with your photon cannon to save your ship and your life!

Rubble from an exploding asteroid bounces off your ship's hull. A glowing
blur flashes across your viewing screen. So that's where the rubble came
from! The asteroid was blasted by an Alien Robot Saucer!

Alien Robot Saucers are also trapped in the asteroid cloud. And they fire
at random! You know that the metal in your ship's hull will register on
their target finders before the asteroids do. The saucers could be a worse
danger than the asteroids!

More rubble strikes your ship. Its hull rings like a bell. If you don't get
busy, that could be your death knell!

Getting Started

1.  Insert the Asteroids (TM) cartridge into your ATARI (R) 7800 (TM)
    ProSystem as explained in your Owner's Manual, and turn on your
    console.

2.  Plug a controller into the left controller jack for one player, and
    another into the right controller jack for two players.

3.  Move the controller handle forward or backward, or press [Select] to
    choose a one-player game, two-player Competition game, or two-player
    Team game. Move the controller handle to the left or right to choose
    one of four difficulty levels: Novice, Intermediate, Advanced, or
    Expert.

4.  Press [Reset] or the left controller button to start the game.

5.  Press a controller button to fire. Shots are fired in the direction the
    ship on screen is pointing.

6.  Move the controller handle forward to move the ship forward. Move it
    left or right to turn the ship. Move it back to warp into hyperspace at
    a random location on screen.

7.  Press [Pause] to pause the game; press it again to resume play.

Playing the Game

Facing the Asteroid Avalanche

Asteroids crowd in on your ship in waves from all corners of the screen.
When you empty the screen of asteroids, a new wave crowds in. Each wave
you face is more difficult to destroy than the last.

You have more than enough photon power to destroy all the asteroids, but
you can fire only four shots into the asteroid field at a time. When hit,
small asteroids disintegrate; medium asteroids split into two small
asteroids; and large asteroids break into two medium asteroids. (In the
Novice level, medium and large asteroids get smaller when hit.)

Watch out for Alien Robot Saucers! They are armed with special photon
lasers that destroy anything they hit under all battle conditions. Both
small and large saucers explode when hit. (There are no saucers in the
Novice level.)

A reserve fleet of three ships stands ready in hyperspace. Each time an
asteroid hits you, destroying your ship, a reserve ship appears in the
starting position. When the screen is clear of passing asteroids, your new
ship begins play. This continues until all your ships are destroyed.

To escape from the asteroid cloud, pull back on the controller handle to
warp into hyperspace -- but watch out! You can be warped back at any time,
or the warp could destroy your ship.

The highest score of the game is displayed on the ending screen and updated
as higher scores are tallied in later games. The highest score remains on
screen until you turn off your console.

Strategy

You can shoot at anything on screen, but you will score more points with a
target priority. The following tips can help you preserve your ship and
score high:

Fire first at the asteroids closest to your ship.
Then fire at the fastest moving target approaching you.
Fire at the saucers last.

You don't need to move your ship forward to play. You can stay in one place
and fire, turning on HYPERSPACE to protect yourself from asteroid
collisions. However, learning to move your ship can extend your playing
time by three or four ships per game.

In a two-player Team game, get together with the other player in the center
of the screen and divide the battle zone into equal sectors. Protect the
other player from a rear approach. The asteroids will almost never be able
to approach a player until the final waves.

Game Variations

Standard Play

This variation is for one player, or two players alternating.

Competition Asteroids

Two players appear on screen at the same time. Your ship is vulnerable to
shots fired by the other player. Both players are supplied with ships as
long as either player has ships in reserve. You benefit by helping the
other player stay alive.

Team Asteroids

Two players appear on screen at the same time and share reserve ships. Your
photon shots pass through the other player's ships without disabling them.

Scoring

Use your photon cannon to destroy the foe and gain points. Player 1's score
is displayed in the upper left corner of the screen; Player 2's in the
upper right corner. The number of ships you have remaining is listed next
to your score.

You gain a bonus ship for every 10,000 points you score. Points are scored
in the following way:

Small saucer            1000 points
Other player's ship      500 points
Large saucer             200 points
Small asteroid           100 points
Medium asteroid           50 points
Large asteroid            20 points


Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents is not allowed
without the specific written permission of Atari Corp.

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the product
documentation in this manual. However, because we are constantly improving
and updating our computer software and hardware, Atari Corp. is unable to
guarantee the accuracy of printed material after the date of publication
and disclaims liability for changes, errors, and omissions.

ATARI is a registered trademark, and Asteroids and 7800 are trademark of
Atari Corp.

Copyright (C) 1986, Atari Corp.
Sunnyvale, CA 94086
All Rights Reserved.

Printed in Taiwan
CO24857-02 Rev. B
K.I.7.1986

