                     ATARI (R) 7800 (TM) Game Manual

                              Commando (TM)

Combat Action!

You are the crack shot Commando, battling overwhelming odds to defeat
advancing rebel forces! You carry out your lone crusade through hostile
territory, armed with only a rifle and a few hand grenades.

Enemy fire flies past you from every direction. Rebel forces leap from
caves, trenches, and strongholds to block your progress.

You need to break through the enemy lines to reach the fortress at the end
that serves as enemy headquarters. If you're clever, you can replenish your
supplies along the way from defeated outposts.

Once you begin your mission, there is no retreat. The fate of the free
world rests in your hands!

System Requirements

Atari 7800 game system
Color television
One or two controllers

Getting Started

1.  With your 7800 game system turned off, insert the Commando cartridge
    into the slot on your console as explained in your owner's manual.

2.  Plug a controller into port 1 for a one-player game; plug a second
    controller into port 2 for a two-player game.

3.  Switch on your television; then press [Power] to switch on your system.
    The Commando title screen appears.

4.  Press [Select] or use the controller to choose the number of players
    and the difficulty level. Move the directional controller up or down
    for a one- or two-player game. Move the directional controller left or
    right for Advanced, Expert, Novice, or Standard difficulty levels.

5.  Press [Reset] or the fire button to begin the game.

6.  Press [Select] during play to return to the title screen.

7.  Press [Pause] to pause the game. Press [Pause] again to resume play.

Playing the Game

As the crack shot Commando, your mission is to make your way through enemy
territory. Your ultimate goal is to pass through the Iron Walls and destroy
the enemy base.

Move the controller to maneuver your Commando through the enemy's terrain.
Trees and other obstacles can provide cover from enemy bullets and
grenades.

While moving through enemy territory, take care not to fall into rivers or
ponds. You will lose a life if you do. You will also lose a life if a
motorcycle or jeep runs over you, so dodge or destroy them.

Watch for the enemy's dynamite trucks. If you have any grenades, lob one
into a dynamite truck to destroy the truck and its cargo. This is the only
enemy vehicle you can destroy.

Press the left fire button to shoot. To launch grenades, press the right
fire button.

To increase your grenade supply, pick up any boxes that you find at
defeated outposts. Each box contains one grenade. The number of grenades
you have left is shown at the top of the screen.

You score bonus points for rescuing prisoners, destroying enemy officers,
and blowing up the enemy's pillboxes and vehicles. Rescue a prisoner by
killing the escorts. Lob two grenades on a pillbox to destroy it.

Strategy

It is important to keep moving forward at all times. Do not remain in one
place for too long to fight the enemy.

Be on the lookout for underground enemy camps. Grenade explosions will
reveal their locations.

Acquire as many grenades as possible.

Watch for weapons. Any weapon you find could help you through an area.

Scoring

Destroying an enemy              300 points
Destroying a vehicle             500 points
Blowing up a pillbox             500 points
Picking up a grenade box        1000 points
Rescuing a prisoner             2000 points
Destroying an enemy officer     2000 points

You receive 5000 bonus points each time you successfully complete an area
and 10,000 points for a mission. You receive a new life at every 60,000
points.

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material
after the date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors,
or omissions. Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents
is not allowed without the specific written permission of Atari Corporation.

Atari, the Atari logo, and 7800 are trademarks or registered trademarks of
Atari Corporation. Commando is a trademark of Data East USA, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1986 Data East USA, Inc. All rights reserved. Manufactured
under license from Data East USA, Inc. and CAPCOM U.S.A., Inc.

Copyright (C) 1989, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. All rights
reserved

Printed in Hong Kong        C300018-038 Rev. B                B.T.9.1989

