ATARI 7800(TM) Game Manual

Dig Dug(TM)

How Many Veggies Can Dig Dug Dig?

Getting Started

1. Insert the Dig Dug(TM) cartridge into your ATARI(R) 7800(TM) ProSystem
   as explained in your Owner's Manual, and turn on your console.

2. Plug a controller into the left controller jack for one player, and
   another into the right controller jack for two players.

3. Move the controller handle forward or backward, or press [Select] to
   choose a one- or two-player game.  Move the controller handle to the left
   or right, or press [Select] to choose one of two difficulty levels.

4. Press the [Reset] button to start the game.  To start a new game at the
   level the previous game ended on, press the fire button on the controller
   after the game ends.  You must press the fire button before the 
   demonstration starts or the game will begin on Level 1.

5. Dig Dug will dig in the direction you move the controller.  Pressing
   either one of the fire buttons on the controller will stun the monsters,
   Pooka(TM) or Fygar(TM).

Playing the Game

        Dig Dug starts each game with five lives.  After he burrows on his
own, use your controller to send him where you want.  When he enters a
tunnel where Pooka is lurking, the monster begins to chase him.  Explode
Pooka quickly by pressing and holding the controller button, or by pumping
it repeatedly.  Pumping the button just once or twice will stun the monster
so Dig Dug can slip past.a  Touching Pooka when he's not stunned will knock
Dig Dug out.
        Dig Dug can handle Fygar in almost the same way, but dragons breathe
fire, so be careful if Dig Dug approaches him while he's looking.  It's not
enough to be just outside his tunnel when he's looking, either, because his
fire is so powerful that it burns a short distance through the earth.  Still,
attacking him from the side is worth more points than attacking from above
or below.
        Another way to handle the monsters is to drop rocks on them.  To do
this, make Dig Dug tunnel underneath a rock when one or more monsters are
chasing him.  If he's tunneling upward, have Dig Dug make a sharp turn just
before he reaches the rock so it falls on them!  If Dig Dug is tunneling
sideways, time him so the rock falls just as the monsters run underneath!
        After two rocks have fallen in any round, a veggie or fruit appears
at the center of the earth for ten seconds.  If Dig Dug can gobble it up,
he earns extra points.
        But there's something very strange about Pooka and Fygar.  Unless
Dig Dug destroys them quickly, they turn into ghosts and move through the
ground directly toward him.  As soon as they enter a tunnel completely they
become solid again, but while they're still ghosts, Dig Dug can only drop
rocks on them.
        The last monster left in any round gets scared of Dig Dug and turns
to the surface, turning into a ghost if necessary to make his trip as fast
as possible.  Once on the surface he scampers to the left of the screen.
To catch him, Dig Dug has to race toward the surface himself.

Scoring

        The flowers at the top of the screen tell the number of the round
you are playing on.  Each small flower counts as one; each large flower
counts as ten.

Dig Dug scores points in several ways:

Digging Up Dirt
Each chunk .......... 10 points

Blowing Up Pooka and Fygar from Above or Below
Surface ............. 200 points
Top level of earth .. 200 points
Second level down ... 300 points
Third level down .... 400 points
Bottom level ........ 500 points

Blowing Up Fygar from the Side
Surface ............. 400 points
Top level of earth .. 400 points
Second level down ... 600 points
Third level down .... 800 points
Bottom level ....... 1000 points

Dropping Rocks on Monsters (score per rock)
One monster ........ 1000 points
Two monsters ....... 2500 points
Three monsters ..... 4000 points
Every extra monster. 2000 points

Gobbling Fruits and Veggies
 
Carrot .............. 400 points
Turnip .............. 600 points
Mushroom ............ 800 points
Cucumber ........... 1000 points
Eggplant ........... 2000 points
Bell Pepper ........ 3000 points
Tomato ............. 4000 points
Onion .............. 5000 points
Watermelon ......... 6000 points
Galaxian ........... 7000 points
Pineapple .......... 8000 points

Bonus Lives
At 20,000 points, 50,000 points, and every 50,000 points following, Dig Dug
earns an extra life.

Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents is not allowed
without the specific written permission of Atari Corporation.

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the product
documentation in this manual.  However, because we are constantly improving
and updating our computer software and hardware, Atari Corporation is
unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material after the date of
publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors, and omissions.

ATARI is a registered trademark and 7800 is a trademark of Atari Corporation
Dig Dug, Pooka, and Fygar are trademarks of Namco Ltd., created and designed
by Namco Ltd., and manufactured under license by Atari Corporation

Copyright (C) 1987, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086 Printed in Hong
Kong.  All Rights Reserved.  CO24857-03 Rev. B B.T.5.1988
