                     ATARI (R) 7800 (TM) Game Manual

                             Donkey Kong (R)
                             by Nintendo (R)

GO APE!

Poor Mario. Just when things were going so well for him -- new girlfriend,
new car, new job -- that beastly ape Donkey Kong kidnaps Mario's girlfriend
and drags her off screaming to the top of a steel fortress. To save her,
Mario must climb to the top of the fortress, remove dangerous rivets, and
fend off life-threatening barrels and fireballs that the ape throws down at
him. It's a tough fight, and Mario needs your help. Be a chum. Be a hero.
Help Mario save his girlfriend.

GETTING STARTED

1.  Insert the Donkey Kong cartridge into your Atari 7800 as explained in
    your Owner's Manual.

2.  Plug a controller into the left port on the front of the system for one
    player; plug a second controller into the right port for two players.

3.  Turn on your television; then press [Power] to turn on your Atari
    console. The title screen will appear.

4.  Press [Select] or move directional lever up or down for 1 or 2 players.

5.  Press [Select] or move the directional lever on your controller left or
    right to choose a game level.

6.  Press player 1's fire button to begin the game.

7.  Press [Pause] to pause a game. Press it again to resume play.

8.  During a game press [Reset] to restart. Press [Select] to return to
    title screen.

PLAYING THE GAME

Hold the controller so that the controller fire button is in the top-left
corner.

Move the directional lever on your controller left or right to make Mario
run on the ramps. To help him up and down ladders, first position him under
or over the ladder, and then move the lever up or down. Mario can descend
only unbroken ladders.

Press the controller fire button to make Mario jump over rivets, barrels,
and fireballs, or grab the hammer, Mario's only weapon against barrels and
fireballs. It's easier for him to jump over a barrel or fireball when he's
running towards it. If one of those nasties is heading toward him, don't
let him be caught on a ladder or with his back turned.

When Mario jumps and grabs the hammer, he can hit the barrels or fireballs
by first facing them, and then hitting them with the hammer. Once Mario has
the hammer, you should act quickly -- the hammer will soon disappear. If
you miss, you'll lose Mario. Don't try to climb the ladders with the hammer.
Mario won't make it.

THE STEEL FORTRESS

The steel fortress has three screens: a ramp screen, an elevator screen,
and a rivet screen.

The game begins with the ramp screen. Here Mario must climb to the top of
the screen. Donkey Kong rolls barrels down the ramps to make the going
tough. Mario can run away from the barrels, leap over them, or smash them
with a hammer. When Mario makes it to the top of the ramps, he'll proceed
to the elevator screen.

Mario must use the elevators to make his way across several platforms while
avoiding the mad springs bouncing at the top of the screen.

On the rivet screen, Mario must remove all of the rivets by either running
or jumping over them. At the same, he must avoid the fireballs that are
chasing him.

When Mario eliminates every rivet, he'll return to the ramp screen to
continue his rescue mission at a more difficult level. From here, you can
continue the game indefinitely until you run out of Marios.

Each screen has a score/bonus points counter at the top. You'll start with
5000 bonus points. You're racing against the clock, so if the counter
reaches zero, you lose a Mario.

As you go from screen to screen, you'll take your bonus points with you.

SCORING

Get purse, umbrella                800 points
Jumping a barrel                   100 points
Removing a rivet                   100 points
Smashing a barrel or fireball      500 points
 with the hammer
Extra life at                   20,000 points

You begin with three Marios: a player and two backups. If you lose a Mario,
a backup is there to take over. Backups begin at the bottom of the screen.
When all the Marios are used up, the game is over.


                                ATARI (R)

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material
after the date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors,
or omissions. Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents
is not allowed without the specific written consent of Atari Corporation.

Atari (R), the Atari logo, and 7800 (TM) are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Atari Corporation. Donkey Kong (R), Mario (TM) and
Nintendo (R) are trademarks or registered trademarks of Nintendo of America
Inc. (C) 1981, 1983 Nintendo of America Inc. Program and audiovisual
(C) 1982, Coleco Industries, Inc. Manufactured under license by from
Nintendo of America Inc. 7800 version by ITDC.

Copyright (C) 1982, Nintendo of America Inc. All rights reserved.

Copyright (C) 1988, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. All rights
reserved.

Printed in Hong Kong.   B.T.8.1988      C300018-048 Rev. A

