"Jinks"


Paddle Power!

You are wandering the wondrous fields and forests of the Planet JINKS.
Everywhere you look you see strange shapes, shadows, and apparitions. A
magic ball bounces before you. Something tells you that your paddle ship
could control the ball's path and unlock the secrets of this planet.

You move the paddle tentatively and tap the ball. It bounces off the
paddle's end and knocks out one of the strange-looking bricks above you.
The hole left behind after the brick disappears and beckons you to explore
further.

Despite this planets alien beauty, some of the objects you encounter look
rather menacing. Are they out to destroy you? Or is it merely their
foreignness that gives you that uneasy feeling?

There's only one way to find out what's in store for you: Grab your paddle
and follow the bouncing ball!

Getting Started

1.  Insert the JINKS cartridge into your Atari 7800 as explained in your
    Owner's Manual.

2.  Plug a controller into the left controller port.

3.  Press [Power] to turn on your console. The JINKS title screen will
    appear.

4.  Press [Reset] or a fire button to start the game.

5.  Press [Pause] to pause during a game; press it again to resume play.

6.  During game play, press [Reset] to restart the game.

Playing the Game

The object of the game is to use the paddle to maneuver the ball through
the course on each level while hitting various objects for points.

Move the controller to maneuver the paddle and hit the ball. Press the left
fire button to invert the paddle. Press the right fire button to "shake"
the screen in order to move the ball out of a repetitive sequence.

Watch out for the objects that move up and down on the screen. If they
touch you, the size of the paddle will decrease, making it more difficult
to hit the ball. The second time one of these objects hits you, you lose a
life.

Use the different surfaces of the paddle to achieve various degrees and
types of bounce for the ball. Occasionally the ball will encounter an area
of random hyperspace and move to another place on the screen. Beware of
chomping teeth that may appear at any level; they can eat the ball.

There are four different levels in the game, each more difficult than the
last. After you have successfully completed a level, hit the ball through
the goal at the far right of the level to move to the interlude screen.

Once you have reached the interlude screen, bounce the ball into one of the
boxes marked 1, 2, 3, or 4, to choose the level you wish to play next. Play
a new level or the level you just played. Each time you return to a level
you already played, that level becomes more difficult. You will find more
menacing objects in the level.

You begin the game with one ball. You can earn bonus balls on all four
levels, but the bonus balls can be used on the level at which they were
earned. You can restore a damaged paddle. Hit one of the small, moving
triangular shapes with a ball to restore the paddle.

You score 5 points for each brick you hit and from 10 to 100 points for
each bonus object. After the game ends, if your score is one of the top
seven, you can add your score to the game's high score list. Enter your
name or initials, then press the fire button.

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material
after the date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors,
or omissions. Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents
is not allowed without the specific written permission of
Atari Corporation.

Atari (TM), the Atari logo, and 7800 (R) are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Atari Corporation.

JINKS (R) is a trademark of Softgold.

Copyright (C) 1987, Softgold. All rights reserved.

Copyright (C) 1989, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. All rights
reserved.

Printed in Taiwan           C300018-057 Rev. A                B.T.7.1989


