VIDEO GAME CARTRIDGE FOR THE
ATARI (R) 7800 (TM) ProSystem

                            POLE POSITION * II

                   High-Performance Racing at its Best

Are you good enough to race with the best? Do you have the nerve and skill
to be a professional race car driver? Pit yourself against the clock and
the competition -- the world's top high-performance Formula 1 racers --
and let's find out.

Choose among four race courses. There's the easy TEST course. On the FUJI
track you'll encounter some obstacles -- billboards, puddles, and other
cars. The SEASIDE track is the intermediate course, set in a landscape by
the sea. And the SUZUKA is the most difficult of the tracks, set in the
midst of a traveling carnival.

* POLE POSITION II is engineered and designed by Namco Ltd.
Manufactured under license by Atari, Inc. Trademark and (C) Namco 1982, 1983.

DRIVERS START YOUR ENGINES!!

Insert the Pole Position II cartridge as explained in your 7800 (TM)
ProSystem Owner's guide, and turn on your system. Plug a controller into
jack 1.

The four tracks are listed on screen, one in each corner. Move the joystick
in the direction of the track that you want, or press the SELECT key -- the
name of the track you choose will blink.

The first lap in a race has a maximum time limit of 75 seconds. Each race
has a total of five laps you must complete. You begin a new lap -- with an
additional 60 seconds to complete it -- only if you've finished the
previous lap in the allotted time.

When you're ready to qualify for a race, press either fire button. Once
you've qualified, the race you've selected begins in a matter of seconds.

If you're in the middle of a race and want to start over, press RESET.
Pressing SELECT will return you to the screen where you can choose the race
you want.

Press PAUSE to pause during a game; press it again to resume play. After a
pause of 15 to 30 minutes, the screen will go blank. Simply move your
joystick and the game will reappear.

MANEUVERING YOUR RACER

Steer your racer by moving your joystick to the left or right. Press the
left fire button on your controller to accelerate. Press the right fire
button to brake. Start out in low gear by pulling back on your joystick. To
shift into high gear, push your joystick forward.

QUALIFYING

Before you can compete in any of the races, you must qualify for one of the
eight starting positions. You have 120 driving seconds in the qualifying
run, but must achieve a lap time of 73 seconds or better to qualify for a
race.

When you qualify for the pole position you're given the prime starting
position in the inside lane. This is the "pole position." If you don't
qualify, you'll be allowed to continue driving for the remainder of the 120
seconds.

GO FOR IT!

If you hit another car, you and the obstacle you've hit will explode,
costing you precious time. You'll also wipe out if you run into a road
sign. Hitting a puddle will slow you down considerably. No matter how many
times you crash, you'll receive another car until your time runs out.

Try to keep your car on the road -- you lose time when you drive off the
track. Skidding also causes your car to slow down. Gun it on the straight-
aways. If you find yourself going to fast, downshift for the difficult
turns.

SCORING

*  Every lap traveled is worth 10,000 points.

*  Each car you pass is worth 50 points.

*  When you finish the race, each second of time left on the Time clock is
   worth 200 points.

BONUS POINTS

The chart below lists the qualifying lap times for the eight starting
positions in the race, and the number of bonus points awarded for each
qualifying time.

STARTING        LAP TIME        BONUS
POSITION
   1             58"50           4000
   2             60"00           2000
   3             62"00           1400
   4             64"00           1000
   5             66"00            800
   6             68"00            600
   7             70"00            400
   8             73"00            200


Reproduction of this document or any portion of it's contents is not
allowed without specific written permission of Atari, Corp. Sunnyvale,
CA 94086


{Fuji}
ATARI
Printed in Taiwan
(C) 1987
Atari, Corporation. for graphics and layout only.
All rights reserved.

C024857-08 Rev. A

