Play Ball

You smell the freshly cut grass as you walk out of the dark, cool tunnel
into the hot afternoon sun. You hear the crack of leather on wood as the
team's power hitter takes batting practice. Today's the day -- you're
starting in the big leagues. After warming up in the bullpen, you're ready
to take the mound. You get a few last-minute instructions from the pitching
coach, and then it's time. Slowly you walk to the center of the diamond.
The batter steps in, and you're ready to play ball!

Getting Started

1.  Insert the RealSports Baseball cartridge into your Atari 7800 as
    explained in your Owner's Manual.

2.  Plug a joystick into the left controller port for one player; plug a
    second joystick into the right controller port for two players.

3.  Turn on your television; then press [Power] to turn on your Atari
    console. The RealSports Baseball title screen will appear.

4.  Move either joystick handle forward or back, or press [Select], to
    choose a one-player or two-player game. Move either joystick handle to
    the left or right, or press [Select], to choose up first or second. If
    no selection is made, the game will go into Demo mode.

5.  Press [Reset] or any joystick button to start the game. An empty field
    appears. The players then come out onto the field, and the batter steps
    up to the plate. The scoreboard appears at the top of the screen, and
    balls and strikes are tallied in the upper right corner.

6.  Press [Pause] to pause the game; press it again to resume play.

Playing the Game

When your team is at bat, the direction the joystick is pushed determines
the type of swing:

Swing Type      Joystick Direction
High            Up
Normal          Middle
Low             Down
Bunt Left       Left
Bunt Right      Right

To swing the bat, press the left joystick button and move the joystick
handle. The batter swings on the release of the joystick button. If the
ball is hit, the batter automatically runs to first base.

The right joystick button moves the runner along. The controllable runner
is highlighted. Move the joystick handle up and press the right joystick
button to advance the runner. To make the runner retreat, move the joystick
down and press the right joystick button.

When your team is in the field, use the right joystick button to set up for
the pitch and to bring in the opposing batter. Select your pitch by moving
the joystick handle in one of the directions indicated below. To throw the
pitch, hold down the right joystick button and then move the joystick
handle in the desired direction.

Up              Fastball
Up/Left         Inside Slider
Up/Right        Outside Slider
Left            Inside Curve
Right           Outside Curve
Down/Left       Inside Slow Curve
Down/Right      Outside Slow Curve
Down            Change-up

After the ball is hit, the fielder closest to the ball makes the play. You
control the fielder's movements by moving the joystick handle in the
direction you want the player to move. To throw the ball to one of the
bases, move the joystick handle in one of the directions indicated below and
press the left joystick button.

Throw Direction         Joystick Direction
First Base              Right
Second Base             Up
Third Base              Left
Home Plate              Down

To return the ball to the pitcher, press the left joystick button with the
handle in the center position. To run with the ball, use the joystick to
move the player. Fielders automatically return to their positions when the
ball is returned to the pitcher and the right joystick to is pressed.

A team remains at bat until three outs are recorded.

Playing Tips

Runners automatically run to the next base when a ball is hit. The
controllable runner is highlighted.

Vary your pitches to keep opposing batters off guard.

Giving your players who are on base a head start will help when you are
playing against the computer.

Scoring

As in a real baseball game, the team with the highest number of runs after
nine innings wins the game. But who knows? If the game is tied at the end
of the ninth, it could be a long day -- or night -- at the old ball park.

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material
after the date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors,
or omissions. Reproduction of this document or of any portion of its
contents is not allowed without the specific written consent of
Atari Corporation.

Atari (R), the Atari logo, RealSports Baseball (TM) and 7800 (TM) are
trademarks or registered trademarks of Atari Corporation.

Copyright (C) 1988, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. All rights
reserved.

Printed in Hong Kong        C300018-034 Rev. A               B.T.11.1988

