
SUPER GAME
ATARI(R) 7800(TM) Game Manual
SUMMER GAMES(TM)
by Epyx(R)

INTRODUCTION

Experience the power, the glory, the thrill and the challenge of the world's
greatest athletic competition: the SUMMER GAMES!

The awe-inspiring OPENING CEREMONY focuses on 3,000 years of noble tradition
as you proudly look on, ready to give your very best to honor your country.

This is the moment you've worked and trained so long to achieve, to test your
skill under pressure against the best of the world's athletes.  You will try
to excel in a whole spectrum of sports events - in track and field, swimming
and diving, gymnastics, and skeet shooting.

Boldness.  Skill.  Strategy.  Determination.  The marks of the true champion.
If you are victorious, you'll receive the champion's prize - the coveted GOLD
MEDAL - before the cheering multitude.  Your triumph might even go down in
history as the greatest personal performance ever!

Seize the moment!
Prepare for the ultimate challenge!
Taste the fruits of hard labor.
Give it your best and GO FOR THE GOLD!

OBJECTIVES

SUMMER GAMES offers a variety of sports competitions for 1 to 8 players.  It
challenges you with six realistic events in swimming, track, gymnastics, and
diving.

Represent one of 18 countries as you compete in each event.  Try to win the
most medals for the whole lineup of events!  SUMMER GAMES keeps score,
provides judges, and awards medals to the winners.  As you get better, try to
set new performance standards.

So, get in shape and try to beat the best.  The whole world is watching you!

GETTING STARTED

1. Insert the SUMMER GAMES Cartridge into your Atari 7800 as explained in your
owner's manual.

2. Plug a controller into the left controller jack.  This is Player 1's
controller.  For two or more players, you may plug a second controller into
the right controller jack.

3. Turn on your television, then press the POWER button to turn on your
console.  The SUMMER GAMES Opening Ceremonies will appear.

4. Press RESET or the left controller button to enter the Main Menu.

STARTING PLAY

A spectacular opening ceremony welcomes you to the International SUMMER GAMES.
A runner arrives to light the traditional flame and white "peace doves" are
released over the stadium.

After the opening ceremony a menu screen offers you a choice of six options.
To make your selection, use your joystick of the SELECT key to move the cursor
to your choice, then press the Fire button or RESET.

OPTION 1: COMPETE IN ALL THE EVENTS

Players compete in the complete series of events, in this order:
Diving, 4x400-Meter Relay, 100-Meter Dash, Gymnastics, Freestyle Relay, and
100-Meter Freestyle.

* Players will first be asked to enter their names.  Use the joystick and Fire
button to select.  Select [END] to continue.

* Push the joystick to move the cursor to one of the flags, then press the
Firs button to pick that country.

* Repeat name and country selection for each player.  When all competitors are
finished select [END] and press the Fire button.

OPTION 2: COMPETE IN SOME EVENTS

Similar to OPTION 1, but you only compete in the events you pick.

* Use the joystick to choose the events, then press the Fire button to select.
An asterisk will appear by the event's name.  Select GO COMPETE to begin play.

OPTION 3: COMPETE IN ONE EVENT

Similar to OPTION 1, but you only compete in the event you pick.

* Use the joystick to choose the event, the press the Fire button.

OPTION 4: PRACTICE ONE EVENT

* Use the joystick to choose the event, the press the Fire button.  NO MEDALS
ARE AWARDED FOR PRACTICE ROUND SCORES.

OPTION 5: NUMBER OF JOYSTICKS (1 or 2)

* Select 1 or 2 by pressing the Fire button.

* If you have only one joystick, plug in into the left port and select 1.

* If you have two joysticks, plug them both in and select 2.  This will let
two players compete head to head in the swimming and running events.

OPTION 6: OPENING CEREMONIES

* Repeats the opening ceremonies.

THE GAMES

DIVING

Stand on a platform 30 feet above the water.  Feel the tension rise as the
crownd watches your every move.  It's time to show your "best stuff" with four
tricky dives: forward, backward, reverse and inward.  As you take the plunge,
remember: Form is Everything!

* Press the Fire button to take off from the diving board.

* Use the joystick to control your body position and rotation speed.  Push the
stick:
   * RIGHT for a full-tuck position, and the fastest rotation.
   * BACK for a pike position, and the second-fastest rotation
   * LEFT for a half-pike position, and slower rotation.
   * FORWARD for a layout position, and the slowest rotation.

* After every dive, the Judges' scores appear in boxes across the center of
the screen.  A dive is considered perfect (for a score of 10 points) if the
body enters the water vertically and fully extended, either head- or
feet-first.  Any deviation from this ideal entry position costs you points,
with a minimum score of zero.

* A second scoring factor is the Difficulty Rating, based on the number of 
rotations and different positions achieved in a dive.  This Rating starts at
1.0, and can go as high as 4.1, increasing with the complexity of the dive.

* The total points for each dive are calculated by eliminating the high and
low Judges' scores and multiplying by the Difficulty Rating.

* To get a high score, attempt the most difficult dive you can successfully
perform.  Easy dives get low Difficulty Ratings; complex dives may earn low
scores if they are executed poorly.  Remember both of the factors used in
scoring this event.

* Three status displays give you this information:
   * A DESCRIPTION screen names the next dive you are to perform.
   * A DIVE RATING screen indicates the score for your performance.
   * A CURRENT STANDINGS screen shows the total points won by all the
   competitors in this event.
  Press the Fire button to change screens.

* The winner of this event is the competitor who scores the most points for
the four dives.

4x400-METER RELAY

It takes speed, pacing, AND perfect teamwork from all four runners on your
relay team to win this exciting race.  Be sure to watch their vital signs
closely - a collapse could be a disaster.  And remember, don't fumble the
baton! 

* Press the Fire button to set your first runner at the starting line.

* When both runners are in place, watch the countdown: "MARK...SET..."  The
starting gun fires. "...GO!"

* Move the joystick to the RIGHT to start running.
   A false start means the countdown begins again.  Be careful - two false
   starts disqualify you.

* Move the joystick to control your runner's speed:
   CENTER for normal running.
   LEFT for "coasting."
   RIGHT for "sprinting." 

* Pacing is crucial in this event, so watch the gauge at the bottom of the
screen to monitor your runner's energy reserves.  When the bar is long and
white, your runner has plenty of energy.  As the bar disappears your energy is
depeleted.
   Control your runner's speed to move them as fast as possible without
   becoming exhausted.  They lose energy while sprinting and regain it while
   "coasting."
   * If a runner tries to sprint with little or no energy left, his
   performance will drop off sharply.  Make the runner coast to reduce his
   speed and regain energy (but don't let him fall too far behind!).

* Each of your runners has a different amount of stamina.  Learn their
individual traits in order to decide how to control their pace.
   * All runners tire more quickly in the first part of their "leg" (or turn)
   than they do in the second part.  Runner one can't regain his energy as
   fast as runner four can, while runner two loses energy faster than runner
   three.

* To pass the baton, press the Fire button.  Time the pass for the moment when
both runners are close to each other, otherwise, you'll lose precious seconds
while your progress stops.

* When your fourth runner crosses the finish line, your race time will appear
in place of your name.

* The winner of this event is the team with the best time.

100-METER DASH

All-out SPEED is the key to winning this race!

* Press the Fire buttong to set your runner at the starting line.

* When the race begins, increase your running speed by jiggling the joystick
as rapidly as you can, either side-to-side or up and down.

* The winner of this event is the runner who crosses the finish line with the
best time.

GYMNASTICS

This is the supreme test of grace and precision.  Strive for a performance of
athletic artistry as you vault from a springboard to the horse, then to the
floor.  The crowd will really appreciate your attention to form!

* Press the Fire button to get set.

* Release the button to start your run.

* Press the button again to jump onto the springboard.
   * You will get a more powerful vault nearer the edge of the board.  Jumping
   too soon or too late will make you miss the board entirely, and you will
   have to start again.  A second miss will disqualify you from the round.

* Hold the joystick RIGHT or LEFT as you leave the springboard to perform a
180 degree axial body twist.  This maneuver increases the difficulty of your
performance and makes a higher score possible (if you successfully complete
your attempt).

* Press the Fire button to push off the horse.  The most powerful push-off
occurs when the body is nearly vertical
   * In the air, move the joystick to control body position and rotation
   speed:
      * FORWARD for a full-tuck position, at fast rotation.
      * CENTER for a layout position, at medium rotation.
      * BACK for a landing position, at slow rotation.  You must be in this
      position for a correct landing.

* The scoring is based on both execution and difficulty, and is displayed
after your landing.
   * EXECUTION is considered perfect if you land completely upright on your
   feet.  In a near-perfect landing, you take a step.  Use the joystick to
   straighten up, by pushing it in the opposite direction that your gymnast is
   leaning.  By making this last-second correction, the landing will be judged
   successsful, with only a slight penalty.  If your gymnast falls there will
   be a greater score penalty.
   * DIFFICULTY is judged by the number of different maneuvers performed in
   mid-air.  Scores are lowered by poor landings, poor height off the horse
   and valuts that involve few maneuvers.

* The highest possible score is awarded for a perfect landing after a 180
degree twist, with maximum height from the horse, followed by a triple
somersault. 

* The winner of this event is the competitor who scores the most combined
points for two consecutive vaults.

FREESTYLE RELAY

Be ready to spring from your starting block when the countdown reaches "GO."
Just a fraction of a second can decide this furious swimming race.  It takes
power, coordination, and strategy to keep your four swimmers ahead!

* Press the Fire button to position your first swimmer at the starting block.

* When both swimmers are in place, watch the countdown: "MARK...SET...GO!"

* Move the joystick to the RIGHT to jump into the water.  Don't jump too soon
- an early takeoff is a false start, and the countdown will begin again.
Three false starts disqualify you from the race.

* Press the Fire button every time your swimmer's arm enters the water.  This
gives you a "power stroke," and more speed.

* When your swimmer reaches the far end of the poo, about half way through the
section marked with smaller floats, lean the joystick LEFT for a kick-turn.
Turning at just the right time gives you the best head start for your return
lap. 

* As your swimmer completes the return lap, lean the joystick RIGHT to start
your next relay racer.  The new swimmer should leave the starting block just
as his teammate reaches the end of the pool.  If you make this move too early
or late, the action stops and you'll lose precious time!

* When your fourth swimmer completes his return lap, the clock displays your
final time for the race.

* The winner of this event is the team with the best final time.

100-METER FREESTYLE

This race is like the Freestyle Relay, except that a single swimmer completes
just two lengths of the pool.  To win this "swimming sprint," concentrate on
getting a good start and keeping a strong power stroke.  Just a split second
can be the margin of victory!

* The start, kick-turn and power stroke are controlled the same way as in the
Relay even.

* This race is over when your swimmer completes his return lap.

* The winner of this event is the swimmer with the best final time.

SCORING

After every event the names, countries, and scores of all competitors are
listed in the order they placed.  The name of the Gold Medal winner appears at
the top of the screen.

CONTINUING PLAY

To restart SUMMER GAMES from any game screen, press RESET.  The program will
return to the main menu.

Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material
after the date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors, or
omissions.  Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents is
not allowed without the specific written permission of Atari Corporation.

ATARI and 7800 are trademarks or registered trademarks of Atari Corporation.
Summer Games is a trademark of Epyx Inc.  Copyright (C) 1985, Epyx, Inc.

Copyright (C) 1987.  Atari Coporation, Sunnyvale, CA  94086.
All rights reserved.  Printed in Taiwan.  C300018-026 K. I. 4 1988

ATARI(R)



