                     ATARI (R) 7800 (TM) Game Manual

                             Super Huey UH-1X

ATARI (R)
Super Huey (TM)

7800 (TM) Game Manual

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the product
documentation in this manual. However, because we are constantly improving
and updating our computer software and hardware, Atari Corporation is
unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material after the date of
publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors, and omissions.

Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents is not allowed
without the specific written permission of Atari Corporation.

Super Huey (TM) is a registered trademark of COSMI, a Corporation, (C) 1986.

Atari (R), the Atari logo, and 7800 (TM) are trademarks or registered
trademarks of Atari Corporation.

ATARI (R)
Copyright (C) 1988, Atari Corporation.
Sunnyvale, CA 94086.
All rights reserved.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION                    1
  Calling All 'Copter Pilots    1
  Getting Started               1

PLAYING THE GAME                2
  Instrument Panel              2
  Arcade Mode                   4
  Flight School                 5
    Taking Off                  6
    Navigating                  6
    Landing                     7
  Reality Mode                  8
    Piloting the Huey           8
    Fighting the Enemy          8

SPECS AND CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS 10
  Super Huey Specs              10
  Concept of Operations         11

STRATEGY                        12


INTRODUCTION

Calling All 'Copter Pilots

Super Huey. That's what they're calling the experimental UH-1XA helicopter
you've been ordered to test. Not that you're complaining -- this baby
sports a super-strong light-weight engine and state-of-the-art control
panel. From the moment you slid in to the streamlined cockpit you knew the
two of you could make sweet music together.

First, try her out in flight school, or go after some gutsy aerial combat
in arcade mode. Then maybe, just maybe, you'll be ready to test your
piloting and target skills in reality mode.

Turn on the power, start the engine, engage the rotor, then go for
altitude. They've finally designed a helicopter the way you always knew
they should, and it's up to you to put it to the test.


Getting Started

1.  Insert the Super Huey cartridge into your Atari 7800 Video Game System
    as explained in your 7800 Owner's Manual.

2.  Switch on your television; then press [Power] on your 7800 console. The
    title screen appears.

3.  Press [Select] or move the directional control on your controller until
    the game mode you want appears: Arcade Mode, Flight School, or Reality
    Mode. To see a demo, wait a few moments.

4.  Press a controller button or [Reset] to begin the game in your selected
    mode.

5.  Press [Pause] to pause a game. Press it again to resume play.

6.  Press [Reset] at any time to start a new game with the same mode; press
    [Select] to return to the title screen to select a different mode.


PLAYING THE GAME

Instrument Panel

Whether you're a novice or seasoned 'copter pilot, you should become
familiar with the instrument panel before you take off. So, slide into the
cockpit and take a gander at the instruments before you. You can view the
instrument panel from the title
screen or any of the mode screens.

NOTE: For specific information on using the instruments, see the section
that describes your chosen mode.

{diagram of Instrument Panel}

Instrument         Function

1. AMO             Counts ammunition.

2. KIL             Counts destroyed enemy aircraft.

3. Radar Screen    Shows how close enemy aircraft and enemy base
                   locations are to the Huey.

4. GUN             Indicates whether your machine gun is on.

5. MIS             Indicates which air-to-ground missile bays (1, 2,
                   3, and 4) are loaded and firing. A bay's number
                   flashes when you launch a missile and disappears
                   when the missile hits or misses its target.

6. Viewing Window  Shows your view from the cockpit.

7. Cross Hairs     Cross hairs appear on the viewing window constantly
                   in arcade mode and when the gun is on or missiles
                   are loaded in Reality Mode. For accurate shooting,
                   center the cross hairs on the enemy target. The
                   cross hairs change color when the enemy is
                   "locked on."

8. FUEL            The fuel gauge.

9. PCH             Collective rotor pitch gauge. Pitch is the angle of
                   the rotor.

10. RISE           The rise meter shows how fast you are gaining or
                   losing altitude.

11. EN             Engine rpm readout and needle gauge.

12. ROT            Rotor rpm readout and needle gauge.

13. COM            Compass heading in degrees.

14. HOR            Artificial horizon indicator. This indicator shows
                   if the Huey is headed up or down or banking left or
                   right.

15. On-Board       Shows Computer Display commands and options to the
                   pilot. Press the right fire button to turn the on-
                   board computer on or off.

                   Push the controller forward or pull it backward to
                   show in sequence each of the seven commands. Press
                   the left fire button to select a command.

                   Power Off/Power On
                   Abort Mission
                   Map Mode/Radar Mode
                   Machine Guns Off/Machine Guns On
                   Load and Arm Missiles/Disarm Missiles
                   Set Auto Alt

16. ALT            Altimeter readout and needle gauge. The altimeter
                   shows the Huey's altitude.

17. SPD            Speedometer readout and needle gauge.

18. OIL            Oil pressure indicator. The optimum reading is the
                   center mark.

19. TEMP           Engine temperature indicator. Normal reading is the
                   center mark.


Arcade Mode

When you select Arcade Mode you shoot at enemy aircraft and try to avoid
getting shot down. You have an unlimited number of weapons to fire, and the
Huey is already airborne, so all you have to do is maneuver and shoot at
targets. If you want to see a demo of Arcade Mode, wait a few moments after
selecting this mode.

To maneuver, move the directional control on your controller up and down
and left and right.

To shoot targets, keep your eye on the radar screen. The moving blips
(dots) show how close you are to the targets. When a target is centered in
the cross hairs and "locked on" appears on the on-board computer screen,
the cross hairs change color. Press the right controller button to fire
missiles and the left button to fire machine guns. The KIL indicator
displays a running count of all targets you've destroyed.

NOTE: If the on-board computer is busy, you won't get a "locked on"
message. Watch the cross-hairs. As soon as they change color, launch a
missile!

Play continues until you are shot down. If an enemy shot inflicts minor
damage to the Huey, you lose the use of an instrument. The on-board
computer terminal displays a message telling you which instrument you've
lost. When all of your instruments are gone, you crash. If you take a
particularly bad hit, you may go down all at once.

If you're good, you'll be out there a long time. But if you're not...


Flight School

When you select Flight School, you learn how to take off, navigate, and
land with the assistance of the on-board computer. Flight School tests
your ability to follow procedures, fly competently, and become comfortable
with the Huey. You learn by experience to keep a gentle, yet firm hand on
the controls so you can smooth your way from one maneuver to another. While
in Flight School, you're flying in friendly territory, so you won't have to
worry about enemy attacks and you don't carry weapons.

In Flight School, the on-board computer screen displays commands and
command options that guide you every step of the way. Commands appear
brighter than options. Once a command appears, select its option mode by
pressing the right controller button.

Scroll through options by repeatedly moving the directional control left.
Select options by pressing the left controller button. Memorize the order
of steps for taking off, navigating, and landing. You will need to know
these steps by heart when you try Reality Mode.

Only you will know how you did; you are on the honor system to learn the
Huey inside and out.


Taking Off

Select flight school from the title screen, then perform the following
steps to take off from the base. (All commands and options appear on the
on-board computer display.)

1. TURN ON THE POWER. Press the right controller button to select the Power
   On option. Move the controller until the Power On option appears, select
   it by pressing the left button. The instrument gauges turn on and are
   set to zero. (Power Off appears as the next option and does not indicate
   a power off condition.)

2. START THE ENGINE. Press the right controller button and move the
   directional control until the Start Engine option appears. Press the
   left button to start the engine. Increase engine rpm to 1200.

3. ENGAGE THE ROTOR. Move the directional control until the Engage Rotor
   option appears and press the left button to select it. Increase engine
   rpm to 3500. Let the rotor rpm catch up to the engine rpm at a 10:1
   ratio. For example, if the engine is running at 3500 rpm, the rotor
   should be spinning at 350 rpm.

4. RISE TO 1000 FEET. To increase pitch, press and hold the left controller
   button and pull backwards on the directional control. Decrease pitch
   when the ALT gauge reads 1000.

Once you are airborne, watch the on-board computer display for more
instructions.


Navigating

Navigating requires a sharp mind and a steady hand. Keep your eye on the
on-board computer display for instructions.

To determine direction, push forward on your directional control to go
forward, pull back to fly backwards. Bank left or right or change altitude
by pushing the directional control in the desired direction. Keep the
engine speed and rotor rpms at a steady rate in order to navigate smoothly.

{diagram "Changing Direction with the Controller"}

The compass shows your direction of travel in compass heading numbers. For
example, 0 is north and 180 is south. The following illustration shows how
the compass heading numbers correspond to the cardinal points north, east,
south, west and so on.

{compass}

To control pitch, press the left controller button and push the directional
control in one of the following ways: forward to decrease pitch and drop
altitude, backwards to increase pitch and gain altitude, left to increase
engine throttle, and right to decrease engine throttle.

{diagram; "Changing Pitch with the Controller"}


Landing

You land when the on-board computer issues you landing commands. The
following is the usual order of landing commands.

1. TURN TO 0 DEGREES. Level off just before you reach this compass reading
   on your COM instrument.

2. HOVER AT 0 KPH. Push forward or backwards on the directional control
   until the SPD gauge reads 0.

3. DROP TO 100 FEET. Decrease pitch until the ALT gauge reads 100.

4. DROP TO 20 FEET. Decrease pitch until the ALT gauge reads 20.

5. TOUCH DOWN SOFTLY. Decrease pitch. When the ALT gauge reads zero, you've
   landed.


Reality Mode

Piloting the Huey

Your mission in Reality Mode is to bomb the enemy base and return to home
base. You're on your own in Reality Mode. Unlike Flight School, the on-
board computer screen doesn't prompt you. Remember all those skills you
learned in Flight School? You'll need every one of them and maybe more.

TIP: Use the Map Mode option to find the enemy base.

Fighting the Enemy

You're in combat against an unidentified enemy helicopter force. This force
changes their field of operations often, so no heading from the base is
safe.

TIP: Don't forget to load and arm missiles.

The skies won't be friendly until you have eliminated all enemies. It takes
skillful flying to evade their deadly attacks, and true aim to shoot 'em
down.

Your defense weapons are missiles and machine guns. They are fix-mounted
and aimed straight ahead. While machine gun fire is extremely accurate, the
missiles are heat seekers that arm in flight. As long as the on-board
computer displays "locked on" when you fire the missiles, they will strike
their target. The missiles are capable of destroying the enemy without a
true direct hit, but machine gun fire travels more quickly and works best
if the target is exactly within the cross hairs.


SPECS AND CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS

The Super Huey was designed to conform to military specifications and to
operate according to standard helicopter theories and principles.

The following specs and theory of op will help you, the serious helicopter
pilot, to better understand this remarkable aircraft.

WARNING: The following is highly classified information DO NOT leak this
information to other personnel unless directed to do so by the base
commander. Violators will be severely reprimanded.


Super Huey Specs

The Super Huey is a UH-1XA type military classified helicopter that employs
the latest in electronic instrument and stabilization systems.

Engine          Vertical mount VLW (Very Light Weight) piston engine molded
                of super-strong, super-light composite metal.

Transmission    Direct drive with an automatic clutch. The clutch has a
                10-to-1 engine to rotor reduction ratio.

Rotor Assembly  Semi-rigid blades with a hub articulation system that
                servo-electronically responds to flight conditions. Flight
                drag reduction is 40 to 60%.

Fuselage        Laminated carbon-fiber for optimum aerodynamic
                characteristics, low weight, and resistance to direct hits.

Cockpit         Seats one pilot in front and a navigator or copilot in
                back. Mid-ship space for three additional personnel.

Weapon Systems  Four bays that hold a maximum of 20 missiles. Two machine
                guns that fire in tandem and can be loaded with a maximum
                of 2000 rounds.


Concept of Operations

The following is a discussion of how rotary-wing aircraft (like the Huey)
operate.

NOTE: The post library has more information on how helicopters work.
Civilians can find this information in their local library.

One factor that allows helicopters to rise is the design of the rotor
blades. These blades are curved so there is more air pressure beneath the
blades than above them. The force of the air pressure beneath the blades,
combined with the engine, push the helicopter up. This ability to push the
helicopter up is called lift.

The amount of lift is controlled by the angle, or pitch of the rotor blade
on the top of the helicopter. Greater pitch allows the helicopter to rise
higher. But greater lift produces more wind drag which tends to slow down
the helicopter. When piloting a helicopter, you always have to keep in mind
that the greatest lift sacrifices speed, and the greatest speed sacrifices
lift.

The helicopter's top rotor makes it unstable by nature. When the top rotor
spins it creates a force that makes the body of the craft spins in the
opposite direction. To counteract this spin and stabilize the craft, the
tail rotor spins in the opposite direction.


STRATEGY

To hit your target you must anticipate the enemy's flight path.

Use the Set Auto Alt command, from the on-board computer, to maintain your
altitude. With the altitude set for auto, you can fight and not worry about
losing altitude. If you forget to use the Set Auto Alt command, you could
fly too low and crash.

To avoid getting shot down you have to evade the enemy, use your weapons
aggressively, and fly with skill and confidence. You must also know when to
leave a bad situation!

In reality mode, return to home base when necessary to refuel, reload
weapons, and repair instruments.


ATARI (R)
Copyright (C) 1988, Atari Corporation
Sunnyvale, CA 94086
All rights reserved.

Printed in Hong Kong.
B.T.3.1989                  C300018-028 Rev. A

