We Have Seen the Aliens... and They Are Us!

It's a nightmare, but it's true! Research shows that we are the actual
aliens on Earth, and the ruthless Xevions are the original inhabitants.

Now the Xevions want Earth back -- minus humans! Their invasion forces are
fierce -- the land is crawling with deadly Domogram Rovers; the sky is
black with Toroid Patrol Fleets and Zoshi Death Squads.

Our puny weapons offer no defense. Earth's only hope is our powerful new
Solvalou Fighter Plane. Its pilot will have a single mission: Penetrate the
enemy ranks and destroy the Xevious Mother Ship.

The mission is dangerous. We can't guarantee success. But at this point,
it's do or die!

One small problem. We still need a pilot. Any volunteers?

Getting Started

1.  Insert the Xevious (TM) cartridge into your Atari (R) 7800 (TM)
    Pro-System as explained in your Owner's Manual, and turn on your
    console.

2.  Plug a controller into the left controller jack for one player, and
    another into the right controller jack for two players.

3.  Move the controller handle forward or backward or press [Select] to
    choose a one- or two-player game. Move the controller handle to the left
    or right to choose one of four skill levels: Novice, Intermediate,
    Advanced, or Expert.

4.  Press [Reset] or the controller button to begin the battle.

5.  Press [Pause] to pause the game; press it again to resume play.

Playing the Game

Battle Plan
As you fly your Solvalou Fighter over the scrolling landscape, you must
defend yourself against both airborne and ground-based Xevious defenses.
Each Xevious foe is worth points; the more dangerous the foe, the more
points you earn for destroying it.

You start the battle with five ships. Fire on the enemy to earn points and
gain extra ships.

Solvalou Weaponry
Your Solvalou Fighter is equipped with a Zapper for destroying airborne
enemies and a Blaster for eliminating Xevious ground forces. Fire both
weapons by pressing the controller button. To aim the Blaster, move your
target sight (located directly in front of your ship) over an enemy ground
unit.

Xevious Mother Ship
If you survive the Xevious onslaught, you'll face the Andor Genesis Mother
Ship. A direct hit to the Mother Ship's central reactor will disable it and
earn you a short respite from Xevious attacks.

But don't get cocky! More Xevious attack forces will soon appear, and a new
Mother Ship will always be lurking somewhere ahead.

Strategy

Move your ship back and forth with the controller handle to strafe airborne
enemies with the Zapper. Fire the Zapper continuously to destroy foes as
soon as they enter the battle screen.

Keep your ship away from the sides or bottom of the screen to avoid being
trapped by enemy fire.

When facing a barrage of opponents, first destroy those shooting at your
ship, then destroy the remaining units for extra points.

Enemy citadels are hidden underground. Your target sight will glow red when
you are directly over a hidden citadel. Score points by raising the citadel
with a Blaster hit. Score additional points by destroying it.

Flags are also hidden in the ground and waterways. Score points by raising
them with Blaster hits. Fly over the raised flags to earn extra ships.

Scoring

Use your Blaster and Zapper to destroy the foe and earn points. You gain
extra ships when you score 20,000 points, 60,000 points, and every 60,000
points following.

Points are scored in the following way:

Destroying Airborne Forces

Brag Zakato Energy Blaster      600-1500 points
Garu Zakato Energy Bomber       500-1000 points
Terrazi Destructor                   700 points
Kapi Deflector                       300 points
Jara Spinner                         150 points
Zakato Energy Launcher               100 points
Zoshi Death Squad                 70-100 points
Torkan Scout Ship                     50 points
Toroid Fleet Ship                     30 points
Giddo Spario Energy Blast             10 points

Destroying Ground Forces

Andor Genesis Mother Ship      1000-4000 points
Sol Citadel: raised                 2000 points
Sol Citadel: destroyed              2000 points
Garu Derota Mega-Station            2000 points
Derota Defense Station         1000-2000 points
Boza Logram Dome Network        300-2000 points
Flag: raised                        1000 points
Flag: destroyed                      extra ship
Grobda Tank                     200-1000 points
Domogram Rover                       800 points
Logram Sphere Station                300 points
Barra Energy Station             100-300 points
Zolbak Detector Dome                 200 points

Reproduction of this document or any portion of its contents is not allowed
without the specific written permission of Atari Corp.

Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the product
documentation in this manual. However, because we are constantly improving
and updating our computer software and hardware, Atari Corp. is unable to
guarantee the accuracy of printed material after the date of publication and
disclaims liability for changes, errors, and omissions.

Atari is a registered trademark and 7800 is a trademark of Atari Corporation.
Xevious is a trademark of Namco Ltd., engineered and designed by Namco Ltd.,
and manufactured under license by Atari corporation

Copyright (C) 1986, Atari Corporation Sunnyvale, Ca 94086
All rights reserved

CO24857-10 Rev. A

Printed in Hong Kong    B.T.7.1988

